Networking Concepts:

Overlay Networking:

A. It is a method of creating a layer of network abstractions that can be run multiple seperate, discrere virtualized network layers on top of the physical network.
   All the nodes are connected with one another by means of virtual IP correspond to a path in the underlaying network(It will create a tunnel)
 
Layer 2: it is a data link where data packets are encoded and decoded into bits.
         The MAC sub layer controls how a computer on the network gains access to the data and permission.

Layer 3(Overlay): 
   

Flannel: very easy to use, No network policy support
WeaveNet: support network policy, support encryption with IPsec for all traffic b/w nodes. easy to use, well support


DHCP  : dynamic host configuration protocal --->>> this will assign an IP address automatically to the machine in the network.
DNS   : domain name server: it will convert the domain name into the IP address.
      step 1: when we enter the domain name it will look into the local cache.
      step 2: if it not found then it will send the quary to the reslover (ISP), It also do the same thing.
      step 3: if IP not found then it will quary send to the root server (they are total 13 root servrs in the world), the root server doesn't know the ip address but 
              it know where to send the the reslover, it will direct reslover to the TLD (top level domain server).
      step 4: still TLD also dont have the IP then the TLD redirect the reslover the final level Authoritative Name Server  this will hold all the name server in the world.
      
      Most of the cases it will stop at the first leve only
   
Http: Hyper trasfer text protocal -->> it will transfer the data in the form of text
Https: Secure Http -->> in this case the txt will send the encrypted form
ssl: Secure sockets layer -->> it is used to authenticate the identity of website with public key authentiocaion, when a computer connect the ssl website it will ask the webserver to authenticate then webserver will send a copy of public key
TLS: transport layerd security it is a successor of ssl, it uses cryptographic protocol